---
layout: post
title: Axis2 - the source of my pains.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<em>2010-10-25 - Victor Berg&ouml;&ouml;</em>

We're using the Axis2 libraries at work, in particular the ADB version and it's working as it should most of the time, but in some cases we can't use the stub to send the document. The ServiceClient:s sendRecieve doesn't really work either in these cases.

There is no real problem to build the XML and then make the SOAP request with HttpClient and then parse the response with DOM or SAX, but we rather use the SOAP client we built from the WSDL to do the heavy lifting with the parsing as this is a cleaner way.

What I'm going to show is pretty easy to do, but there doesn't seem to be any good documentation about it. My guess is that the Apache people wants you to do everything through the WSDL classes. 

First off we need the XML document. This can be done with almost any library as far as I'm concerned, you can even do it with StringBuffer if you want, It doesn't really matter as all we want to do is to be able to send the payload to the service in the other end. The example of the day is a simple echo service built with the Axiom libraries:

{% highlight java%}
SOAPFactory factory = OMAbstractFactory.getSOAP11Factory();

OMElement element = factory.createOMElement(new QName("echo"));
element.setText("echo test");

SOAPBody body = factory.createSOAPBody();
body.addChild(element);

SOAPEnvelope env = factory.createSOAPEnvelope();
env.addChild(body);

InputStream ins = doRequest(env); // HttpClient request or similar
{% endhighlight %}

But then comes the part which is harder to find. At least for me who seems to lack the right amount google-fu. I had to read quite some code to get to this part to work.

{% highlight java %}
XMLStreamReader xmlReader = StAXUtils.createXMLStreamReader(ins);
StAXBuilder builder = new StAXSOAPModelBuilder(xmlReader, null);
SOAPEnvelope respEnvelope = (SOAPEnvelope)builder.getDocumentElement();
{% endhighlight %}

Then we just need give the SOAP documents body to the correct class from the generated SOAP classes. I actually had the following part before I where able to create the SOAPEnvelope.

{% highlight java %}
OMElement respElement = respEnvelope.getBody().getFirstElement();
EchoE ee = EchoE.Factory.parse(respElement.getXMLStreamReader());
Echo echo = ee.getEcho();
{% endhighlight %}

I hope this helped someone so you can be up and running faster then i could with this.
