---
layout: post
title: Daemons - we all got them
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<em>2010-10-31 - Victor Berg&ouml;&ouml;</em>

I like libraries that handles stuff for me so I don't have to implement it myself. Especially when it's "hard" stuff, like creating a daemon. That's why the [daemons](http://daemons.rubyforge.org/) library for Ruby fits like a glove. It does the whole daemonizing thing us so we can focus on more fun things to do, like writing a program. There's four main ways to create a daemon with this library and I will talk about the Daemons.daemonize way. 

Say that we got a program that we want to daemonize, but we want to handle the flags and build up for the daemon ourselves, then we don't want to use  Daemons.run_proc because this takes away this power from us. Instead we want to use Daemons.daemonize, but this gives too little control. We want to walk the middle ground here which can be handled by creating the daemon "ourselves". We continue to use the library, but we handle the fun stuff.

To do this we create an ApplicationGroup which will do the work for us:

{% highlight ruby %}
daemon = Daemons::ApplicationGroup.new("my_daemon", {
  :ontop => false,
  :dir => Dir.pwd,
  :dir_mode => :normal
})
daemon.new_application(:mode => :none).start

loop {
  # whatever we want to daemonize goes here
}
{% endhighlight %}

This gives us both the power to handle the configuration of the program, but this gives us also more power over the daemon itself. For example, if we would have created the daemon with just Daemons.daemonize, then we would have given up the naming of the daemon, i.e. "my\_daemon". If we would let the daemons library name the daemon, then it would just be called "self". Which isn't that easy to find if we have more then one daemon running.

There's a problem with creating the daemon this way though. daemon.new\_application(:mode => :none) makes sure that the current process gets daemonized, but by doing this we essentially makes sure that there won't be any logging of the stdout. I had personally to open up Daemons::Application#start\_none to fix this problem.
